Seoul framework for Data Protection
Nation Intitute of Standard and Technology


NIST framework :
	
	
	
 For an organization that is starting up its security program,
 there are some key actions required to take advantage of the Cybersecurity Framework.
 
 1)The first is to identify the key business outcomes.
 2)Then understand the threats and vulnerabilities to those outcomes.
 3)Create a profile. 
 4)Conduct a risk assessment.
 5)Decide on the target profile. 
 6)Determine, analyze and prioritize the gaps to create the action plan. 
 7)And establish and execute a program to implement the plan.
 
 Cybersecurity is, at its heart, the management of risk related to internet-connected businesses. 
 This includes the threats, the vulnerabilities of IT systems, and the attack countermeasures.
 
 Standard approach :
 National Institute of Standards and Technology 800-30, Guide for Conducting Risk Assessments.
 ISO 27005, Information Security Risk Management publication.
 
 It's useful to have a source of threat intelligence to support threat analysis. 
 VERIS provides an open community threat database which can be used to support risk analysis.
 ThreatStream offers an open source cyber threat intelligence blog, which reports on contemporary activities and threat actors.
 
 Control objetives for IT :
 From a cyber security perspective, there are two key processes for security, APO13, 
 Manage Security in the Plan group, and DSS05, Manage Security Services in the Deliver group.
 
 Manage Security:
 The process description is Define, operate, and monitor a system for information security management. 
 And it has five goals, Support IT and business compliance, Support the management of IT and enterprise risk,
 Contribute to the transparency of IT costs and benefits, Ensure the security of information, infrastructure, and applications, and Provide reliable
 information for decision making.
 
 There are seven operational security controller objectives in DSS05. 
 1) Protect against malware.
  These include: Anti-virus, Security patching, Security information awareness and in contemporary terms, cyberthreat intelligence,
  Change management, Security filtering of email and web traffic, and Security training.
  
 2) Manage network and connectivity security. 
     Establishing and enforcing Policy on network connections
     Enforcement of Password entry,
     The configuration and use of Firewalls and intrusion detection systems
     Network security protocols and communications encryption, 
     Network configuration, 
     Security mechanisms to ensure trusted transmission and receipt
     Network security control testing
     penetration testing.

   
3)  Network segregation. 
    Manage endpoint security covers the security of laptops, desktops, servers, mobile devices, and network equipment. 
    It requires that controls are in place to ensure the endpoints are securely configured. 
    Hardened to remove unnecessary ports and protocols and that Remote access is managed.
	
4)  Manage user identity and logical access.  
    Identities are managed from creation to removal. 
    Access rights are established and maintained inline with the roles and responsibilities of the organization.
    Access to systems and information is authorized and authenticated.
      Privileged access is strictly controlled and that access rights are regularly reviewed, 
      Appropriate Audit trails of access are kept. 
	
5)  Management of physical access to IT assets.
      Perimeter protection such as fences, doors, and locks, 
    Intruder detection systems, access controls for data centers and office spaces, Identity cards, and Visitor management procedures.
    Increasingly the use of Cloud based infrastructure is reducing the effort required to manage this area.

6)	But increasing the dependence on and the oversight of, third party security.
      Managing sensitive documents is an increasingly important aspect of security as the focus of protective measures 
      shrinks from the perimeter to the information itself. 
      With employees taking laptops out of the enterprise and sending data out to mobile devices perimeter security devices such as corporate 
      firewalls no longer protect enterprise information. New techniques such as Digital rights management and mobile data encryption need to be employed.
      This process also includes information in device-centric controls such as password or pin control printing and pin codes on mobile devices. 

7)  The last, but by no means least, of the control objectives in the deliver manage securities services group is monitor 
    the infrastructure for security-related events. 
	  This provides the detective controls that are needed to identify security breaches should the enterprise's preventative controls fail. 
	  This control objective includes the operation of Intrusion detection and prevention assistance, Logging and alerting security related events,
	  operating Log management and Security information and event monitoring systems, delivering Security incidents to the incident management process,
	  carrying out Forensics, and Managing evidence.

   These are all key activities for a Cybersecurity operation center.

 Cyber Essentials :
 The UK government has created a low-cost, light-touch scheme called Cyber Essentials 
   
   
   
Cyber kill Chain :
The cyber kill chain views an attack in seven stages: 
reconnaissance, weaponization, delivery, exploitation, installation, command and control, and action. 

 Reconnaissance : finding out about a target  IP address scan and port scan  .
 Malware weaponization :  it's customized to a specific target or group of targets .
 Delivery : The most common way of delivering malware is to embed it in a document, PDF, image, or other electronic item in a way that when it's opened it will self-install. 
 Exploitation : the infected item will exploit a vulnerability in the target software post delivery when the document is opened.
